CONTRIBUTING.md (+README.md edits +CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) (#78)
SplitScreen-Me/splitscreenme-nucleus: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Nucleus Coop Contributing Guide  
Want to help out with the project? We'd love it! There are lots of different ways that you can help, whether it is developing game handlers, contributing to the project codebase, or simply a donation - all are appreciated.

## Join Discord!
The "developers" channel on the [official Discord Server](https://discord.gg/QDUt8HpCvr) is a great place to get started! Introduce yourself! Chat with the current project developers about what you would like to work on! This is a great way to get to know those working on the project and can also help guide your development contributions, coordinate work better, etc.

## Game Handlers
If you’d like to expand the list of supported games (or improve an existing game’s support), check out the detailed [Handler Development Guide](https://www.splitscreen.me/docs/create-handlers)!

## Issue Contribution

> If you encounter an issue while using Nucleus Coop, or have an idea for a new feature, you can create a [GitHub “Issue”](https://github.com/SplitScreen-Me/splitscreenme-nucleus/issues) using the “New Issue” button on the Issue page. This will take you to a selection page where you can choose the most relevant template for your issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter an issue while using Nucleus Coop, or have an idea for a new feature, you can [create an issue](https://github.com/SplitScreen-Me/splitscreenme-nucleus/issues/new/choose). This will take you to a selection page where you can choose the most relevant template for your issue.
If you want to suggest a new feature or report a bug for any of our other projects (for example our discord bot, or websites), please check out the appropriate repositories: https://github.com/orgs/SplitScreen-Me/repositories
```

> The SplitScreen.Me FAQ has a great article that discusses [Bug Reporting](https://www.splitscreen.me/docs/faq/#18--where-can-i-report-a-bugissue) in more detail, including how to enable and view log files.

Reviewer: very good! 💯

## Security Note
If you identify a security issue in the code of Nucleus Coop, please do not post a public issue identifying the security threat. This potentially highlights the issue for malicious users to take advantage of the vulnerability. 

> Instead, please ping @Administrators, @Moderators, or @Developers in the support channel of the Nucleus Coop Discord server, and only share the details once a secure channel of communication has been established.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you identify a security issue in the code of Nucleus Coop, please do not post a public issue identifying the security threat. This potentially highlights the issue for malicious users to take advantage of the vulnerability. 
Instead, please ping @Administrators, @Moderators, or @Developers in the support channel of the Nucleus Coop [Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/a9ssM5pxTW), and only share the details once a secure channel of communication has been established.

Alternatively you can [create a repository security advisory](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/working-with-repository-security-advisories/creating-a-repository-security-advisory)
```

## Working on the Source Code
If you would like to contribute to the codebase of Nucleus Coop as a developer, we would love to have you! Here are some helpful guidelines to make the process go as smoothly as possible!

### The Process
1.	**Fork the master branch** and clone it into your own development environment. As of right now, the “master” branch is the primary, active branch of the project.

2.	**Work on your changes**. Make sure to check for updates to the master branch before you create a pull request to avoid unnecessary code conflicts.

3.	 [**Create a pull request**](https://github.com/SplitScreen-Me/splitscreenme-nucleus/pulls) once you are done with your changes! Please verify that your fork is caught up with the master branch beforehand.

4.	**Your code will be reviewed**, and changes may be requested. Address any issues and repeat as necessary until your change is accepted!

5.	**Done!** Once your code is reviewed and accepted, it will be merged into the codebase of the project! Congratulations! You should see your changes in the next release build!

> To learn more about [forking](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo), [cloning](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository), and [pull requests](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request), please check out the official GitHub articles.

Reviewer: Very good note! Just making it a bit more cohesive
```suggestion
Check out the official GitHub articles to learn more about [forking](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo), [cloning](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository), and [pull requests](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request).
```

3) Use a command console to clone your fork of the repository. For example, you might run:

    `git clone https://github.com/JoeyJoeJoeShabadooFork/splitscreenme-nucleus`

4) Navigate to the top-level of the folder that was just created as part of the cloning process (generally "splitscreenme-nucleus"). 
5) Update the submodules to make sure that all submodule dependencies are downloaded and up-to-date by running the following command:

    `git submodule update --init --recursive`
    
6) Batch Build **Proto Input** by opening its solution file in Visual Studio and batch building it ("Submodules\ProtoInput\src\ProtoInput\ProtoInput.sln" within the project root). 

    The cleanest way is probably to sort by "Solution Config" header under the Batch Build menu and check the boxes that correspond with the version you would like to compile (make sure to check both x86 and x64 boxes for your selected build type).

    Note: you may also refer to the [Compilation](https://nucleus-coop.github.io/docs/compilation/) article for another detailed example of creating builds from the source code.

    Close the Proto Input project out when you're done.

> You are now free to work on the Nucleus Coop source code - all dependencies in place! If you get any errors in compiling along the way, you may need to install and run project solution files from an earlier version of Visual Studio or the .NET SDK for better project compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Fork the repo
2. clone the repo
     `git clone https://github.com/JoeyJoeJoeShabadooFork/splitscreenme-nucleus`
3. Navigate to the root folder and update the submodules to make sure that all submodule dependencies are downloaded and up-to-date by running the following command:
     ```sh
     cd splitscreenme-nucleus
     git submodule update --init --recursive
     ```
4. Batch Build **Proto Input** by opening its solution file in Visual Studio and batch building it ("Submodules\ProtoInput\src\ProtoInput\ProtoInput.sln" within the project root). 

    The cleanest way is probably to sort by "Solution Config" header under the Batch Build menu and check the boxes that correspond with the version you would like to compile (make sure to check both x86 and x64 boxes for your selected build type).

    Note: you may also refer to the [Compilation](https://nucleus-coop.github.io/docs/compilation/) article for a more detailed example (with screenshots) of creating builds from the source code.

    Close the Proto Input project out when you're done.

You are now free to work on the Nucleus Coop source code - all dependencies in place! If you get any errors in compiling along the way, you may need to install and run project solution files from an earlier version of Visual Studio or the .NET SDK for better project compatibility.
```

### Compiling and Testing Changes

When you are ready to test any changes you make, compile **Nucleus Coop** by opening its solution file and running a batch build on it within Visual Studio ("Master\NucleusCoop.sln"). Similar to Proto Input, on the Batch Build menu, select all the x86 and x64 options for the build you would like to compile. 

> Once you have selected your build options and run the batch build command, your output build directory should now have a fully functioning versio of the program and everything it needs to run! To test your changes live within Nucleus Coop itself, go to your build directory and run "NucleusCoop.exe" to test out your new build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have selected your build options and ran the batch build command, your output build directory should have a fully functioning version of the program and everything it needs to run! You can now go to the build directory and run "NucleusCoop.exe" to test out your new build.
```

> As a reminder, please take care to follow the Coding Standards for the project when adding any code-based contributions.

Reviewer: Link to code standards
```suggestion
As a reminder, please take care to follow the [Code Standards](#code-standards) for the project when adding any code-based contributions.
```

> Test your changes **thoroughly** before submitting a Pull Request. Whenever approrpriate, it is strongly recomended that you develop unit-tests with a good test spread to make sure that your new features are working as intended and are capable of handling anticipated edge cases. In cases where this is not possible, please be sure to follow a similar testing paradigm where both average and edge use cases are tested. In the long run, this will save the project a lot of tedious back-tracking and bug-smashing by proactively ensuring that easily-preventable bugs don't sneak into the master build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test your changes **thoroughly** before submitting a Pull Request. Whenever appropriate, it is strongly recommended that you develop unit-tests with a good test spread to make sure that your new features are working as intended and are capable of handling anticipated edge cases. In cases where this is not possible, please be sure to follow a similar testing paradigm where both average and edge use cases are tested. In the long run, this will save the project a lot of time, avoiding tedious back-tracking and bug-smashing by proactively ensuring that easily-preventable bugs don't sneak into the master build.
```

#### Build Configurations
* Release - The release version of the app (live, user-facing build)
* Debug - Debug version of the app (extra debug features enabled)

### Submitting Changes

#### Create a Pull Request
Once you have finished building and testing your changes, it's time to submit them! From the /SplitScreen-Me/splitscreenme-nucleus repository, go to the Pull Requests section and click the "New Pull Request" button.

**Make sure that the _base_ repository is set to "/SplitScreen-Me/splitscreenme-nucleus"!** 

> Otherwise, you will be attempting to merge your changes with a different repository. Double-check that you will be merging with the correct head branch as well (generally "master") Also verify that the _head_ repository is set to your fork and the branch of your fork where you made all the changes that you would like to implement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, you will be attempting to merge your changes with a different repository. Double-check that you will be merging with the correct _base_ branch as well (generally "master") Also verify that the _head_ repository is set to your fork and the branch of your fork where you made all the changes that you would like to implement.
```

It is a good idea to create a detailed (but concise) comment to accompany the initial pull request to explain:
* The issue the pull request is addressing
* What is changed
* Testing procedures used and their results
* Potential issues or challenges encountered
* Any questions or other comments for contribution reviewers

#### Review Process

> All pull requests will approved by a sufficient number of project maintainers (those with write access to the project repository) before any changes are merged. Before aproving changes, reviewers will determine whether:

Reviewer: I would simplify this a bit. If they've come this far they probably know what a maintainer is :)
```suggestion
All pull requests will need to be approved by a sufficient number of maintainers before any changes are merged. Before approving changes, reviewers will make sure that:
```

Author: I'm incorporating this suggestion manually, since it needs to go along with a slight tweak to phrasing of one or two of the following bullet points - will be implemented in the next uploaded commit.

* Changes do not interfere with existing features or design plans
* There are overlap issues (i.e. other developers are already assigned to it) 
* Sufficient testing occurred
* Quality standards are upheld

> While it is certainly _possible_ that a quality pull request might be accepted right away, it should be expected that there will be some changes requested of the pull request, and issues that need to be discussed and resolved before it is approved. The pull request post itself is a great place to have these conversations, though contributors should not be afraid to directly message fellow developers either, when doing so is helpful to resolving any issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it is certainly _possible_ that a high quality pull request might be accepted right away,chagne requests, questions and discussions should be expected before the pull request can be merged. Discussions around the pull request should preferably be held in the pull request comments so it's easy for multiple people to follow the progress... but don't hesitate to reach out directly to the developers and maintainers either.
```

Author: Incorporating this one manually, since I have a couple proposed (very slight) tweaks for the suggestion - should be in the next commit of CONTRIBUTING.md.

### Implementing Changes

#### Approval

> Once the review process is completed to the satisfaction of project enough project maintainers, a project maintainer will merge the pull request with the "master" branch, incorporating any changes within the pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the review process is completed to the satisfaction of enough maintainers, a maintainer will merge the pull request with the "master" branch, incorporating any changes within the pull request.
```

> At this point, the contributor's job is done! If your pull request made it this far, congratulations! Your contribution is now part of the project!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, the contributor's job is done! If your pull request made it this far, congratulations! Your contribution is now part of the project!
Thank you for contributing!
```

#### Release Builds

> Periodically, the current lead developer(s) of Nucleus Coop will decide when enough changes have been incorporated into the master branch to justify a new release. After sufficient testing by project maintainers to ensure build stability, a release will be created and published alongside a change log of implemented changed as improvements. Releases include source code along with a more convenient installer and a "portable" (pre-compiled zip folder) option for users to run the program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Periodically, the current lead developer(s) of Nucleus Coop will decide when enough changes have been incorporated into the master branch to justify a new release. To ensure build stability, a release will be created and published alongside a change log of implemented changes after sufficient testing by maintainers. Releases include source code along with a more convenient installer and a "portable" (pre-compiled zip folder) option for users to run the program.
```

Currently, there is no set release schedule, and releases will be published when ready and verified stable.

### Code Standards

> * When in doubt, structure your code to err on the side of readability!

Reviewer: As a non-native English speaker, I had trouble understanding what err meant in this sentence. Perhaps it should be re-worded? Feel free to disagree
```suggestion
* When in doubt, structure your code to prioritize readability!
```

* Please write C# code following [standard conventions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/design-guidelines/capitalization-conventions). 

### Tips and Troubleshooting

#### Updating Submodules
If you get an error about missing URL's when attempting to initalize and update the submodules, open up .gitmodules (in the project root folder) in a text editor and make sure that the following are listed.
    
Even if some of these dependencies are not in active use, the git "update" command may fail to execute if entries and URLs for **all submodule** dependencies cloned from your fork are not found in the .gitmodules file.

    [submodule "Submodules/x360ce"]
	    path = Submodules/x360ce
	    url = https://github.com/lucasassislar/x360ce

    [submodule "Submodules/ProtoInput"]
        path = Submodules/ProtoInput
        url = https://github.com/ilyaki/protoinput

    [submodule "Submodules/nukeupdater"]
        path = Submodules/nukeupdater
        url = https://github.com/lucasassislar/nukeupdater
        
    [submodule "Submodules/TypescriptSyntaxPaste"]
        path = Submodules/TypescriptSyntaxPaste

>         url = https://github.com/nhabuiduc/TypescriptSyntaxPaste.git

Reviewer: This can be moved into a code block, like so: 

```ini
    [submodule "Submodules/x360ce"]
	    path = Submodules/x360ce
	    url = https://github.com/lucasassislar/x360ce

    [submodule "Submodules/ProtoInput"]
        path = Submodules/ProtoInput
        url = https://github.com/ilyaki/protoinput

    [submodule "Submodules/nukeupdater"]
        path = Submodules/nukeupdater
        url = https://github.com/lucasassislar/nukeupdater
        
    [submodule "Submodules/TypescriptSyntaxPaste"]
        path = Submodules/TypescriptSyntaxPaste
        url = https://github.com/nhabuiduc/TypescriptSyntaxPaste.git
```

Author: I fought with the .md formatting a lot with this part, lol. The current version on my fork actually displays similar to that, oddly enough (https://github.com/RangerTJ/splitscreenme-nucleus/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). I'm not entirely sure _why_ though. It might be displaying as another block type and not a code block, since I didn't use the '>' lead in for it. 

I noticed the one on my fork has sharp edges vs. rounded edges on the block). I tried using a leading '>' earlier but it kept giving me really weird formatting issues, where the brackets would be outside the block but the indented code chunks would be contained within it (or depending on how I spaced things, it'd wrap the text vs. letting me indent/create new lines). I'll play with it some more and see if I can get it to behave, heh.

Edit: Copilot says bracketing the text in triple backticks may do the trick, so I'll give that a shot. 
Edit 2: Yup, that seemed to do the trick!

Author: Should now be implemented!

**After clicking "New Pull Request" on the Pull Request page, make sure that your base and head repositories are correct before continuing.**

Make sure that for the "base" repository, the "master" branch is selected. If you are merging to a different branch for some reason, merge to that branch instead. For the head, the branch should be whatever branch you would like to merge from in your own repository fork.

_The **Comparing Changes** selectors must display as follows for the Pull Request to work correctly._

**Base Repository**
>base repository: SplitScreen-Me/splitscreenme-nucleus

If Github defaults the head to SplitScreen-Me/splitscreenme-nucleus, you will need to change the head _first_. Otherwise, GitHub may see you as trying to merge from within the same project and drop the option to select target/destination forks (requiring you to backtrack and start base/head selection over again).

**Base**
>base:master

Use "master" unless you are intentionally merging with a different branch for some reason (in which case, use the target branch instead).

**Head Repository**
>head repository: YourUserName/ForkRepoName

**Compare**
>compare: YourSourceBranch

> 

Reviewer: This section could probably be shortened quite a bit, though I'm not sure exactly how 😅

Author: Yeah, I was kinda iffy on leaving this one as-is, since it's kinda long, lol. If we're operating on the assumption that the contributor knows how to use Github and do a Pull Request, we could probably shave off all the detailed parts and just leave the comments highlighting that it might default the base to an older fork of the project (and include the reminder about changing the head first to avoid having to do it all again).

Author: New commits should have a heavily simplified version of this section. May still be a bit of redundancy with the Pull Request part of the article. I'm not _entirely_ sure it's absolutely necessary, since anyone who knows how to use GitHub should probably be able to notice that when the head/base are wrong, lol.

Maybe just take everything from (in the new version) "GitHub may default..." on down and put it in the Pull Request section instead? And just leave this section for a quick note/clarification on the project branches (giving a space to edit in details later in case the current "master" paradigm ever changes).

Author: Implemented a first pass of a hatchet-job to this section, but may want to follow-up on my previous comment and further trim it/restructure it, depending on what everyone thinks.

Reviewer: Imo it looks okey now. I'll resolve this and make another suggestion related to this in a new review :)

     cd splitscreenme-nucleus
     git submodule update --init --recursive
     ```
4. Install (or Build) Proto Input
  

>    **Option 1 (Recomended):** Use Post-Compiled Proto Input Files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **Option 1 (Recommended):** Use Post-Compiled Proto Input Files

```

Author: Yeah, sorry about the comment wordiness, that is... an ongoing struggle for me, heh. But yeah, everything is basically resolved, I think.

>    This is the simplest approach to handling Proto Input file dependencies. If you have no plans to work with the Proto Input source code directly, this is the recomended approach, at is much simpler and has less potential for complications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is the simplest approach to handling Proto Input file dependencies. If you have no plans to work with the Proto Input source code directly, this is the recomended approach, as is much simpler and has less potential for complications.

```

Author: I think I might simplify this even further with a follow-up change, since it was bordering on a run-on sentence. Something like "...this is the recommended approach. It is much simpler and has less potential for complications."

  
     The cleanest way to do this is probably to sort by "Solution Config" header under the Batch Build menu and check the boxes that correspond with the version you would like to compile (make sure to check both x86 and x64 boxes for your selected build type).

     Check out the troubleshooting section for additional tips on getting Proto Input to compile correctly, if you have any problems! Proto Input appears to be very sensitive to your development environment, so you will likely need to consult this section, especially if you are trying to work with it within Visual Studio 2022.

     Close the Proto Input project out when you're done.

You are now free to work on the Nucleus Coop source code - all dependencies in place! If you get any errors in compiling along the way, you may need to install and run project solution files from an earlier version of Visual Studio or the .NET SDK for better project compatibility.

### Compiling and Testing Changes

When you are ready to test any changes you make, compile **Nucleus Coop** by opening its solution file and running a batch build on it within Visual Studio ("Master\NucleusCoop.sln"). 

> **Make sure that your project path contains no folders with spaces in their name, or Nucleus Coop may not compile correctly.**

Reviewer: very good note! I suggest we make it stand out a bit more by highlighting it as important
```suggestion
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Make sure that your project path contains no folders with spaces in their name, or Nucleus Coop may not compile correctly.
```

This will look like this:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Make sure that your project path contains no folders with spaces in their name, or Nucleus Coop may not compile correctly.

Alternatively you could use this:

```suggestion
> [!CAUTION]
> Your project path may not contain any folders with spaces in their name, or Nucleus Coop may not compile correctly.
```

> [!CAUTION]
> Your project path may not contain any folders with spaces in their name, or Nucleus Coop may not compile correctly.

This is a pretty new feature, so in case you want to read more about it, you can do that here: https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/16925#discussioncomment-9823370

Author: I was really torn on this one... but I like how "important" flags it without triggering my "something is broken" response like the bright red caution one does when I read it. I'm leaning towards a follow-up commit that blends some of the suggested phrasing in the "caution" suggestion with it too, because I think the stronger tone is a bit clearer (though I think I'll slightly edit it to "Your project path _should_ not contain..."

* Any questions or other comments for contribution reviewers

#### Review Process
All pull requests will need to be approved by a sufficient number of maintainers before any changes are merged. Before approving changes, reviewers will make sure that:
* Changes do not interfere with existing features or design plans
* There are no overlap issues (i.e. other developers are already assigned to it) 
* Sufficient testing occurred
* Quality standards are upheld

> While it is certainly _possible_ that a quality pull request might be accepted right away, change requests, questions, and discussions should be expected before the pull request can be merged. Discussions around the pull request should preferable be held in the pull request comments. This way it is easy for multiple people to follow progress... but don't hesitate to reach out directly to the developers and maintainers either!

Reviewer: Whooops, looks like my previous suggestion might have had a typo
```suggestion
While it is certainly _possible_ that a quality pull request might be accepted right away, change requests, questions, and discussions should be expected before the pull request can be merged. Discussions around the pull request should preferably be held in the pull request comments. This way it is easy for multiple people to follow progress... but don't hesitate to reach out directly to the developers and maintainers either!
```

> 
> it should be expected that there will be some changes requested of the pull request, and issues that need to be discussed and resolved before it is approved. The pull request post itself is a great place to have these conversations, though contributors should not be afraid to directly message fellow developers either, when doing so is helpful to resolving any issues.

Reviewer: Isn't this just saying the same as what's written above?
```suggestion
```

Author: Yup! Looks like the old phrasing (or maybe an edit in progress I forgot to delete) somehow survived. Should be dead after this commit though. For real this time!

Currently, there is no set release schedule, and releases will be published when ready and verified stable.

### Code Standards
* When in doubt, structure your code to prioritize readability!
* Comment large blocks of abstract code with concise descriptions.
* Please write C# code following [standard conventions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/design-guidelines/capitalization-conventions). 

### Tips and Troubleshooting

#### Updating Submodules
If you get an error about missing URL's when attempting to initalize and update the submodules, open up .gitmodules (in the project root folder) in a text editor and make sure that the following are listed. 
    
Even if some of these dependencies are not in active use, the git "update" command may fail to execute if entries and URLs for **all submodule** dependencies cloned from your fork are not found in the .gitmodules file. Add anything missing, save the changes to .gitmodules and the command should now work.

> ```

Reviewer: to get code highlighting :)
```suggestion
```ini
```

It should then look like this:
```ini
[submodule "Submodules/x360ce"]
    path = Submodules/x360ce
    url = https://github.com/lucasassislar/x360ce
[submodule "Submodules/ProtoInput"]
    path = Submodules/ProtoInput
    url = https://github.com/ilyaki/protoinput
[submodule "Submodules/nukeupdater"]
    path = Submodules/nukeupdater
    url = https://github.com/lucasassislar/nukeupdater
    
[submodule "Submodules/TypescriptSyntaxPaste"]
    path = Submodules/TypescriptSyntaxPaste
    url = https://github.com/nhabuiduc/TypescriptSyntaxPaste.git
```

    url = https://github.com/nhabuiduc/TypescriptSyntaxPaste.git
```

#### Issues Compiling Proto Input

> Proto Input appears to be very sensitive to its development environment. If you are opening ProtoInput.sln in Visual Studio 2022, you may be prompted to uprade the project, but doing this might complicate things. If you cannot get it to compile, try opening a fresh version of ProtoInput.sln (so you see the ugprade prompt again) and make sure that all options are set to "No Upgrade". Upgrading can potentially lead to syntax errors in the compiling process. If you see a FILE_INFO_BY_HANDLE_CLASS syntax error pop up numerous times during compiling, this is a likely culprit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Proto Input appears to be very sensitive to its development environment. If you are opening ProtoInput.sln in Visual Studio 2022, you may be prompted to upgrade the project, but doing this might complicate things. If you cannot get it to compile, try opening a fresh version of ProtoInput.sln (so you see the upgrade prompt again) and make sure that all options are set to "No Upgrade". Upgrading can potentially lead to syntax errors in the compiling process. If you see a `FILE_INFO_BY_HANDLE_CLASS` syntax error pop up numerous times during compiling, this is a likely culprit.
```

> If you run into issues compiling ProtoInput.sln, there is a good chance that you are missing some dependencies or add-ons required by Visual Studio or Visual Studrio Build Tools, and you will need to identify and install them. You may also refer to the [Compilation](https://nucleus-coop.github.io/docs/compilation/) article for a more detailed example (with screenshots) of creating builds from the source code. Troubleshooting may also involve fixing ProtoInput.sln project build order dependencies, if sub-componenets appear to be building out of the intended order on your setup. In addition to basic C++ dependencies, you will also need to install C++ ATL for build tools (x86/64), at the minimum, and possibly v142 C++ dependencies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run into issues compiling ProtoInput.sln, there is a good chance that you are missing some dependencies or add-ons required by Visual Studio or Visual Studio Build Tools, and you will need to identify and install them. You may also refer to the [Compilation](https://nucleus-coop.github.io/docs/compilation/) article for a more detailed example (with screenshots) of creating builds from the source code. Troubleshooting may also involve fixing ProtoInput.sln project build order dependencies, if sub-componenets appear to be building out of the intended order on your setup. In addition to basic C++ dependencies, you will also need to install C++ ATL for build tools (x86/64), at the minimum, and possibly v142 C++ dependencies.
```

> You may also need to update the compiling order. In some dev environments, it appears that the default project compile order may result in certain subcomponents trying to compile before their dependent libraries are finished coding. Keep an eye on output errors from the compile process and note any errors that occur because a file cannot be opened. Make sure that the sub-component that failed to compile has the project that contains the file that failed to open as a dependency. To set dependencies, right-click the ProtoInput solution in the solution explorer section of Visual Studio and select the "Project Dependencies..." option. From there, simply use the drop-down box to select a subcomponent and then check the boxes next to any known, missing dependencies (as seen from output errors). Submodules with known issues in certain setups include _ProtoInputInjectorProxy_ (requires EasyHookDLL) and _ProtoInputUtilStatic_ (requies Blackbone). Check these submodules first and ensure they have their dependencies checked if if you have any issues. Otherwise use output errors to help troubleshoot any other dependency issues - a file failing to open is a good indicator that it wasn't installed yet (and is thus is a dependency that should have been installed earlier). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may also need to update the compiling order. In some dev environments, it appears that the default project compile order may result in certain subcomponents trying to compile before their dependent libraries are finished coding. Keep an eye on output errors from the compile process and note any errors that occur because a file cannot be opened. Make sure that the sub-component that failed to compile has the project that contains the file that failed to open as a dependency. To set dependencies, right-click the ProtoInput solution in the solution explorer section of Visual Studio and select the "Project Dependencies..." option. From there, simply use the drop-down box to select a subcomponent and then check the boxes next to any known, missing dependencies (as seen from output errors). Submodules with known issues in certain setups include _ProtoInputInjectorProxy_ (requires EasyHookDLL) and _ProtoInputUtilStatic_ (requies Blackbone). Check these submodules first and ensure they have their dependencies checked if you have any issues. Otherwise use output errors to help troubleshoot any other dependency issues - a file failing to open is a good indicator that it wasn't installed yet (and is thus is a dependency that should have been installed earlier). 
```

Author: Just caught another typo in this that I'll fix in a follow-up, towards the end I snuck in an extra "is".

 _"...(and is thus **is** a dependency that should have been installed earlier). "_
